README.md, before:

# AP-Comp-Sci-Study-Guide

_Put all your vocab and study tips here!_

**Vocabulary:**

Algorithm: A set of instructions that accomplish a specific task (this is applicable outside of coding too)

Baudot code: A binary code invented by Emilie Baudot in 1870 that uses crosses and dots to encode 2^5 or 32 characters.

Big Data: Big data referst to data that is collected by companies. Companies collect a lot of data and therefore it is known as big data.

Binary code: Code represented with the two symbols of 1 and 0

Bits: The foundation for digital computing (1s and 0s) - short for binary digits

Branching: Instruction in a computer program that can cause a computer to begin executing a different sequence of instruction.

Bug: An error in a program that cases problems / unexpected behavior in a program.

Cipher: An algoirthom in cyber security for perfoming encryption or decryption.

Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage is an alternative way to store data that is not on a local device but instead it is stored online in the "cloud". Data that is stored on the cloud can usually be accessed from anywhere through the internet.

Computer science: The study of the ideas, ways of thinking, languages, software, and hardware needed to solve problems with computers

CPU: The Central Processing Unit or CPU for short is the processing chip for a computer.

Data Structure: A specialized format for organizing, processing, storing and retrieving data.

Debug: To identify and remove problems in a program

Definite loop: Executes a predetermined set of times for a loop to be repeated.

Dichotomous: Something can only be one thing or another (yes or no)

Floating-point numbers/Floats: Numbers where the decimal point can float because there is no fixed number of digits before and after the decimal point. AKA: real numbers

High level language: Easier for humans to read, write, and parse.

IDE: IDE stands for Integrated Develoment Environment. An IDE is used for writing code and they usually contain additional features like compiling adn debugging tools.

Iteration: Repetition - one complete step of a loop, repeated until a certain condition is met.

LAN: LAN stands for Local Area Network, this is a small computer network, sometimes located within a single room or building or location.

Low level language: Has little to no abstraction and communicates closely to the hardware using machine language. Less natural for humans.

Machine code: Machine level instructions that are uniquely read by computer processors using patterns of 1s and 0s.

RAM: Stands for Random Access Memory, this is a short term memery that is faster to read and write to than a computers hard drive. RAM is volatile meaning that it needs power to maintain data. If a computer is shutoff, the data in the RAM is erased.

ROM: ROM stands for Read Only Memory. This memory can only be read from but not written to.

Selection: Uses "if...then" to tell a computer how to select a step or to tell the sequence that it should be executed.

String: A linear sequence of characters, words, or other data

Visiual programming language: Use drag and drop blocks rather than text (ex. Scratch)

WAN: WAN stans for Wide Area Network, this is a computer network that extends a large geographic area.

**Web Resources:**

How to sort a list (various languages): https://www.w3schools.com/python/ref_list_sort.asp

Guide to Commenting: https://www.cs.utah.edu/~germain/PPS/Topics/commenting.html

Guide to Python DocStrings: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-docstrings/

AP Classroom: https://apstudents.collegeboard.org/

AP CSP Exam Reference Sheet: https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-exam-reference-sheet.pdf

**Studying tips:**

1. Read all tasks and questions carefully! It's easy to get caught into the sublties of AP CSP questions.

2. Communicate! Communicate well when collaborating with others and comment on your programs.

**Quizzes:**

AP CS Quizlet: https://quizlet.com/subject/ap-computer-science/?__cf_chl_captcha_tk__=pmd_PnCnrxvp_sZt41bhUFi_94XUQJ20BHO5_IFxNGRYCWg-1635563734-0-gqNtZGzNA1CjcnBszQzl

**Other:**

Donut recipe for when AP CSP makes you want to cry: https://www.delish.com/cooking/recipe-ideas/a24788319/how-to-make-donuts-at-home/

Commit message:

Add the definition for interpreter

README.md, after:

# AP-Comp-Sci-Study-Guide

_Put all your vocab and study tips here!_

**Vocabulary:**

Algorithm: A set of instructions that accomplish a specific task (this is applicable outside of coding too)

Baudot code: A binary code invented by Emilie Baudot in 1870 that uses crosses and dots to encode 2^5 or 32 characters.

Big Data: Big data referst to data that is collected by companies. Companies collect a lot of data and therefore it is known as big data.

Binary code: Code represented with the two symbols of 1 and 0

Bits: The foundation for digital computing (1s and 0s) - short for binary digits

Branching: Instruction in a computer program that can cause a computer to begin executing a different sequence of instruction.

Bug: An error in a program that cases problems / unexpected behavior in a program.

Cipher: An algoirthom in cyber security for perfoming encryption or decryption.

Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage is an alternative way to store data that is not on a local device but instead it is stored online in the "cloud". Data that is stored on the cloud can usually be accessed from anywhere through the internet.

Computer science: The study of the ideas, ways of thinking, languages, software, and hardware needed to solve problems with computers

CPU: The Central Processing Unit or CPU for short is the processing chip for a computer.

Data Structure: A specialized format for organizing, processing, storing and retrieving data.

Debug: To identify and remove problems in a program

Definite loop: Executes a predetermined set of times for a loop to be repeated.

Dichotomous: Something can only be one thing or another (yes or no)

Floating-point numbers/Floats: Numbers where the decimal point can float because there is no fixed number of digits before and after the decimal point. AKA: real numbers

High level language: Easier for humans to read, write, and parse.

IDE: IDE stands for Integrated Develoment Environment. An IDE is used for writing code and they usually contain additional features like compiling adn debugging tools.

Interpreter: A program on a computer that directly runs code without having to compile it into a machine language program first.

Iteration: Repetition - one complete step of a loop, repeated until a certain condition is met.

LAN: LAN stands for Local Area Network, this is a small computer network, sometimes located within a single room or building or location.

Low level language: Has little to no abstraction and communicates closely to the hardware using machine language. Less natural for humans.

Machine code: Machine level instructions that are uniquely read by computer processors using patterns of 1s and 0s.

RAM: Stands for Random Access Memory, this is a short term memery that is faster to read and write to than a computers hard drive. RAM is volatile meaning that it needs power to maintain data. If a computer is shutoff, the data in the RAM is erased.

ROM: ROM stands for Read Only Memory. This memory can only be read from but not written to.

Selection: Uses "if...then" to tell a computer how to select a step or to tell the sequence that it should be executed.

String: A linear sequence of characters, words, or other data

Visiual programming language: Use drag and drop blocks rather than text (ex. Scratch)

WAN: WAN stans for Wide Area Network, this is a computer network that extends a large geographic area.

**Web Resources:**

How to sort a list (various languages): https://www.w3schools.com/python/ref_list_sort.asp

Guide to Commenting: https://www.cs.utah.edu/~germain/PPS/Topics/commenting.html

Guide to Python DocStrings: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-docstrings/

AP Classroom: https://apstudents.collegeboard.org/

AP CSP Exam Reference Sheet: https://apcentral.collegeboard.org/pdf/ap-computer-science-principles-exam-reference-sheet.pdf

**Studying tips:**

1. Read all tasks and questions carefully! It's easy to get caught into the sublties of AP CSP questions.

2. Communicate! Communicate well when collaborating with others and comment on your programs.

**Quizzes:**

AP CS Quizlet: https://quizlet.com/subject/ap-computer-science/?__cf_chl_captcha_tk__=pmd_PnCnrxvp_sZt41bhUFi_94XUQJ20BHO5_IFxNGRYCWg-1635563734-0-gqNtZGzNA1CjcnBszQzl

**Other:**

Donut recipe for when AP CSP makes you want to cry: https://www.delish.com/cooking/recipe-ideas/a24788319/how-to-make-donuts-at-home/
